README.md, before:

# Description
Marvel app to query Characters with details to show my coding style.
IMPORTANT: For the app to work you need to add the HASH_KEY generated by you public and private
API KEYS in the local.properties file in your Android studio as "HASH_KEY"  [More Info](https://developer.marvel.com/documentation/authorization)

# Dependencies

-   [Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack):
    - [Android KTX](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/ktx.html) - Kotlin to Jetpack Apis
    - [AndroidX](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx) - AndroidX library
    - [Lifecycle](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/lifecycle) - Helps you track the lifecycle state of your Android based components
    - [Navigation](https://developer.android.com/guide/navigation/) - AndroidX Navigation library, very powerful.
    - [ViewModel](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/viewmodel) - The ViewModel class allows data and state to survive configuration
        changes such as screen rotations.
    - [Paging](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/paging/v3-overview) - Paging library
-   [Coroutines](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coroutines-overview.html) - Managing background threads in a simple way
-   [Koin](https://insert-koin.io/) - Kotlin Dependency Injector library
-   [Ktor](https://ktor.io/docs/welcome.html) - Pure KotlinHTTP client.

#Architecture

## Module by feature
The modules created here are dependent on the features we want to implement and the features
are created by domain logic, in this case character lists retrieved from Marvel api.
There is a core module holding the network dependencies and extensions the whole application is
going to use.

<p align="center">
 <img src="resources/architecture-dependency.png">
</p>


## Clean Architecture
The feature modules are divided internally in clean architecture. Inside the feature modules exists:
- a domain package for business logic,
- data package for data retrieving,
- presentation package for everything UI related (NOTE: For this challenge and keep the UI and Navigation simple
  I left the UI Layouts in APP Module but as every module is an Android Library is good to also have the UI screen
  on each module and work with nested navigation.

<p align="center">
 <img src="resources/clean-architecture.png">
</p>

## Dependency injection
This is a must-have architecture implementation to be able to have re-usability of code and make testing easier.
Im using Koin because it works with pure Kotlin and it can be used to scale the project to 
a Kotlin Multi Platform state which Im very interested.

## MVx
For the view I use a combination of MVVM and MVI. The ViewModel it's the one to hold the data
and the state of the view, so the view only listens to the ViewState changes and pass the data
to the ViewModel

## BuildSrc + Kotlin DSL
It helps the project by having all the dependencies in one place and allowing us to write gradle
extensions which is so nice to have. Also moving from .gradle to .gradle.kts is a must for all the
help Kotlin provides in builds
[More Info](https://proandroiddev.com/better-dependencies-management-using-buildsrc-kotlin-dsl-eda31cdb81bf)

## Testing
For testing Im using Junit4, Mockk and the support test libraries for coroutines, koin and Junit Koin.
In this project you can see UseCase, Repository and ApiClient Unit Testing

## Custom View
The Aspect Ratio custom view is a code sniped I got while doing The Architect Coders training with 
Antonio Leiva (Spain). All credits to him :)

# Libraries

## Ktor
Ktor is my to-go library when working with KMP projects, it's very simple and it works in pure
Kotlin. It has a lot of options to work with multiple platforms and I love the modularization it
provides to play with the requests.
It also helps to easy Mock network responses while waiting for backend endpoints to be ready

## Kotlin serialization
Instead of GSON I started to use Kotlin serialization in order to be ready for KMP.

## Coroutines
In this project I use the Flow api from coroutines. It's super similar to the RX pattern but, simpler
and easier. Right now RX is on decline and people are moving to MVI architectures notifying states
instead of raw data to the UI (which is preferable) and Kotlin Flow allow us to do this smoothly.
You can see that the Flow starts at the network edge and is collected in the viewModel where updates the
viewModel Live Data that is observed in the UI Controller.

## Pagination 3
Implemented Android Paging Library 3 to improve pagination reducing network usage and system resources.

## Future Considerations
- Migrate to Jetpack Compose with Single Activity and zero fragments (If not, implement viewModel data binding to clean the UI Controller)
- Implement build variants to match company development lifecycle and also consider to add a Mock flavor in order to accelerate dev productivity while
  backend endpoints are not ready
- Implement Pinterest Klint (https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint)  to do static code analysis and also add a Git hook that automatically runs ktlint on every push to the remote in order
  to ensure we never push unformatted code.

Commit message:

Restructure Clean Architecture
Migrated Character feature layers from packages to modules

README.md, after:

# Description
Marvel app to query Characters with details to show my coding style.
IMPORTANT: For the app to work you need to add the HASH_KEY generated by you public and private
API KEYS in the local.properties file in your Android studio as "HASH_KEY"  [More Info](https://developer.marvel.com/documentation/authorization)

# Dependencies

-   [Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/jetpack):
    - [Android KTX](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/ktx.html) - Kotlin to Jetpack Apis
    - [AndroidX](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx) - AndroidX library
    - [Lifecycle](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/lifecycle) - Helps you track the lifecycle state of your Android based components
    - [Navigation](https://developer.android.com/guide/navigation/) - AndroidX Navigation library, very powerful.
    - [ViewModel](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/viewmodel) - The ViewModel class allows data and state to survive configuration
        changes such as screen rotations.
    - [Paging](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/paging/v3-overview) - Paging library
-   [Coroutines](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coroutines-overview.html) - Managing background threads in a simple way
-   [Koin](https://insert-koin.io/) - Kotlin Dependency Injector library
-   [Ktor](https://ktor.io/docs/welcome.html) - Pure KotlinHTTP client.

#Architecture

## Module by feature
The modules created here are dependent on the features we want to implement and the features
are created by domain logic, in this case character lists retrieved from Marvel api.
There is a kotlin "features" module including the kotlin module "character" which contains three modules divided by layers.

<p align="center">
 <img src="resources/architecture-dependency.png">
</p>


## Clean Architecture
The feature modules are divided internally in clean architecture. Inside the feature modules exists:

- a domain package for business logic,
- data package for data retrieving,
- presentation package for everything UI related

## MVVM

For the view I use MVVM: The ViewModel it's the one to hold the data and
the state of the view, so the view only listens to the ViewState changes and pass the data to the
ViewModel.

## Navigation

For the navigation I had implemented a nested graph navigation between modules.

## Dependency injection
This is a must-have architecture implementation to be able to have re-usability of code and make testing easier.
Im using Koin because it works with pure Kotlin and it can be used to scale the project to 
a Kotlin Multi Platform state which Im very interested.

## BuildSrc + Kotlin DSL
It helps the project by having all the dependencies in one place and allowing us to write gradle
extensions which is so nice to have. Also moving from .gradle to .gradle.kts is a must for all the
help Kotlin provides in builds
[More Info](https://proandroiddev.com/better-dependencies-management-using-buildsrc-kotlin-dsl-eda31cdb81bf)

## Testing
For testing Im using Junit4, Mockk and the support test libraries for coroutines, koin and Junit Koin.
In this project you can see UseCase, Repository and ApiClient Unit Testing

## Custom View
The Aspect Ratio custom view is a code sniped I got while doing The Architect Coders training with 
Antonio Leiva (Spain). All credits to him :)

# Libraries

## Ktor
Ktor is my to-go library when working with KMP projects, it's very simple and it works in pure
Kotlin. It has a lot of options to work with multiple platforms and I love the modularization it
provides to play with the requests.
It also helps to easy Mock network responses while waiting for backend endpoints to be ready

## Kotlin serialization
Instead of GSON I started to use Kotlin serialization in order to be ready for KMP.

## Coroutines
In this project I use the Flow api from coroutines. It's super similar to the RX pattern but, simpler
and easier. Right now RX is on decline and people are moving to MVI architectures notifying states
instead of raw data to the UI (which is preferable) and Kotlin Flow allow us to do this smoothly.
You can see that the Flow starts at the network edge and is collected in the viewModel where updates the
viewModel Live Data that is observed in the UI Controller.

## Pagination 3
Implemented Android Paging Library 3 to improve pagination reducing network usage and system resources.

## Future Considerations
- Migrate to Jetpack Compose with Single Activity and zero fragments (If not, implement viewModel data binding to clean the UI Controller)
- Consider creating a CORE-UI package for scalability and maintainability.
- Consider migrating API features to its own module (instead of having it in the feature or CORE) if
   more features will be added that require network capabilities. Creating a separate module has the
   advantage that it's easier to reuse since you don't need to include the whole core module in
   another project, but rather only the API module.
- Explore the possibility to implement exponential backoff patter for network retries.
- Implement build variants to match company development lifecycle and also consider to add a Mock flavor in order to accelerate dev productivity while
  backend endpoints are not ready
- Implement Pinterest Klint (https://github.com/pinterest/ktlint)  to do static code analysis and also add a Git hook that automatically runs ktlint on every push to the remote in order
  to ensure we never push unformatted code.
- Testing: Increase coverages for the unit tests. Add UI tests using Espresso.
